docs/Respiratory_Agents/cystic_fibrosis.md, before:

# Cystic Fibrosis

This is a subcategory of Respiratory Agents.

## Formulary

### Preferred

| Preferred   | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :---------- | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
| Kalydeco <sup> PA QL</sup> |              |          |             |
| Orkambi <sup> PA QL</sup>  |              |          |             |
| Symdeko <sup> PA QL</sup>  |              |          |             |
| Trikafta <sup> PA</sup> |              |          |             |

### Non-Preferred

| Non-Preferred | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :------------ | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
| Bronchitol    |              |          |             |

## Length of Authorizations

Initial authorization 90 days

Subsequent authorization 365 days

## All Authorizations

Must be prescribed in accordance with FDA approved labeling

## Clinical PA Criteria

- Must be prescribed by or in consultation with a pulmonologist or infectious disease specialist
- Must provide documentation of the genetic mutation

## Non-Preferred Criteria

- Must provide documentation of medical necessity beyond convenience for why the patient cannot be changed to a preferred drug (i.e., allergies, drug-drug interactions, contraindications, or intolerances) **OR**
    - For any nonsolid oral dosage formulation: must provide documentation of medical necessity for why patient cannot be changed to a solid oral dosage formulation
- Must have had an inadequate clinical response of at least **30 days** with at least **one preferred** drug
    - For non-preferred extended-release formulations: must provide documentation of an inadequate clinical response with its immediate release formulation (if available)
    - For non-preferred brand names that have preferred generics: must provide documentation of an inadequate clinical response or allergy to two or more generic labelers (if available)

## Bronchitol

Additional Bronchitol Criteria

- Must be used as an add-on maintenance therapy
- Must provide documentation of a completed Bronchitol Tolerance Test 

## Subsequent Authorization Criteria

- Must provide documentation of patient’s clinical response to treatment (adherence to
treatment demonstrated by claims history **AND** one or more of the following: FEV1,
weight gain, sweat chloride, pulmonary exacerbations, etc.) and ongoing safety
monitoring 

## Links

[Criteria](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20230101_UPDL%20_Criteria_APPROVED.pdf#page=92)

[Preferred Drug List](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20230101_UPDL_APPROVED_12.13.22.pdf#page=30)

[Quantity Limit List](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20230101_Ohio_Medicaid_Quantity_Document_APPROVED.pdf)

Commit message:

updates to search order, addition of quantity limits

docs/Respiratory_Agents/cystic_fibrosis.md, after:

---
search:
  boost: 2 
---

# Cystic Fibrosis

This is a subcategory of Respiratory Agents.

## Formulary

### Preferred

| Preferred                 | Generic Name                                              |         Quantity          |        Time (Days)        |
| :------------------------ | :-------------------------------------------------------- | :-----------------------: | :-----------------------: |
| Kalydeco <sup>PA QL</sup> | Ivacaftor Packet 50 MG & 75 MG                            | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Kalydeco <sup>PA QL</sup> | Ivacaftor Tab 150 MG                                      | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Orkambi <sup>PA QL</sup>  | Lumacaftor / Ivacaftor (all strengths & formulations)     | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Symdeko <sup>PA QL</sup>  | Tezacaftor / Ivacaftor 100-150 MG & Ivacaftor 150 MG TBPK | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Trikafta <sup>PA</sup>    |                                                           |                           |                           |

### Non-Preferred

| Non-Preferred | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :------------ | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
| Bronchitol    |              |          |             |

## Length of Authorizations

Initial authorization 90 days

Subsequent authorization 365 days

## All Authorizations

Must be prescribed in accordance with FDA approved labeling

## Clinical PA Criteria

- Must be prescribed by or in consultation with a pulmonologist or infectious disease specialist
- Must provide documentation of the genetic mutation

## Non-Preferred Criteria

- Must provide documentation of medical necessity beyond convenience for why the patient cannot be changed to a preferred drug (i.e., allergies, drug-drug interactions, contraindications, or intolerances) **OR**
    - For any nonsolid oral dosage formulation: must provide documentation of medical necessity for why patient cannot be changed to a solid oral dosage formulation
- Must have had an inadequate clinical response of at least **30 days** with at least **one preferred** drug
    - For non-preferred extended-release formulations: must provide documentation of an inadequate clinical response with its immediate release formulation (if available)
    - For non-preferred brand names that have preferred generics: must provide documentation of an inadequate clinical response or allergy to two or more generic labelers (if available)

## Bronchitol

Additional Bronchitol Criteria

- Must be used as an add-on maintenance therapy
- Must provide documentation of a completed Bronchitol Tolerance Test 

## Subsequent Authorization Criteria

- Must provide documentation of patient’s clinical response to treatment (adherence to
treatment demonstrated by claims history **AND** one or more of the following: FEV1,
weight gain, sweat chloride, pulmonary exacerbations, etc.) and ongoing safety
monitoring 

## Links

[Criteria](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20230101_UPDL%20_Criteria_APPROVED.pdf#page=92)

[Preferred Drug List](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20230101_UPDL_APPROVED_12.13.22.pdf#page=30)

[Quantity Limit List](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20230101_Ohio_Medicaid_Quantity_Document_APPROVED.pdf)
