docs/Respiratory_Agents/hereditary_angioedema.md, before:

# Hereditary Angioedema

This is a subcategory of Respiratory Agents.

## Formulary

### Preferred

| Preferred   | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :---------- | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
| Haegarda PA |              |          |             |
| Ruconest PA |              |          |             |
| Takhzyro PA |              |          |             |

### Non-Preferred

| Non-Preferred     | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :---------------- | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
| Berinert          |              |          |             |
| Cinryze           |              |          |             |
| Icatibant Acetate |              |          |             |
| Kalbitor          |              |          |             |

## Length of Authorizations

365 Days

**All products in this class require clinical prior authorization**

-   Diagnosis of hereditary angioedema
-   History of recurrent angioedema (without urticaria) within the past 180 days
-   History of recurrent episodes of abdominal pain and vomiting within the past 180 days
-   History of laryngeal edema within the past 180 days
-   Positive family history of angioedema

## Prior Authorization Criteria

Is there any reason the patient cannot be changed to a medication not requiring prior approval? Acceptable reasons include:

-   Allergy to medications not requiring prior approval
-   Contraindication to or drug interaction with medications not requiring prior approval
-   History of unacceptable/toxic side effects to medications not requiring prior approval

## Additional Information

The requested medication may be approved if the following is true:

-   There has been one episode of angioedema during use of a preferred medication

## Links

[Criteria](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20221001_UPDL_Criteria_APPROVED.pdf#page=92)

[Preferred Drug List](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20221001_UPDL_APPROVED_.pdf#page=30)

Commit message:

updates until ql in hereditary angioedema

docs/Respiratory_Agents/hereditary_angioedema.md, after:

# Hereditary Angioedema

This is a subcategory of Respiratory Agents.

## Formulary

### Preferred

| Preferred   | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :---------- | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
| Haegarda <sup>PA</sup> |              |          |             |
| Ruconest <sup>PA</sup> |              |          |             |
| Takhzyro <sup>PA</sup> |              |          |             |

### Non-Preferred

| Non-Preferred     | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :---------------- | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
| Berinert          |              |          |             |
| Cinryze           |              |          |             |
| Icatibant Acetate |              |          |             |
| Kalbitor          |              |          |             |

## Length of Authorizations

Initial: 90 days

Subsequent: 180 days

## All Authorizations

Must be prescribed in accordance with FDA approved labeling

## Clinical PA Criteria

- Must provide documentation of diagnosis (i.e., C1-INH deficiency or dysfunction (Type I or
II HAE)) and whether the drug will be used for prophylaxis or treatment
- Must provide documentation of at-home administration


## Non-Preferred Criteria

- Must provide documentation of medical necessity beyond convenience for why the patient cannot be changed to a preferred drug (i.e., allergies, drug-drug interactions, contraindications, or intolerances) **OR**
    - For any nonsolid oral dosage formulation: must provide documentation of medical necessity for why patient cannot be changed to a solid oral dosage formulation
- Must have had an inadequate clinical response to at least **60 days** with at least **one preferred** drug
    - For non-preferred extended-release formulations: must provide documentation of an inadequate clinical response with its immediate release formulation (if available)
    - For non-preferred brand names that have preferred generics: must provide documentation of an inadequate clinical response or allergy to two or more generic labelers (if available)

## Subsequent Authorization Criteria

- Must provide documentation of patient's clinical response to treatment and ongoing safety monitoring

## Links

[Criteria](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20230101_UPDL%20_Criteria_APPROVED.pdf#page=94)

[Preferred Drug List](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20230101_UPDL_APPROVED_12.13.22.pdf#page=30)

[Quantity Limit List](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20230101_Ohio_Medicaid_Quantity_Document_APPROVED.pdf)
