docs/Infectious_Disease_Agents/antifungals.md, before:

# Antifungals

This is a subcategory of Infectious Disease Agents.

## Formulary

### Preferred

| Preferred    | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :----------- | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
| Fluconazole  |              |          |             |
| Flucytosine  |              |          |             |
| Griseofulvin |              |          |             |
| Ketoconazole |              |          |             |
| Terbinafine  |              |          |             |

### Non-Preferred

| Non-Preferred | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :------------ | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
| Brexafemme    |              |          |             |
| Cresemba      |              |          |             |
| Itraconazole  |              |          |             |
| Noxafil Susp  |              |          |             |
| Oravig        |              |          |             |
| Posaconazole  |              |          |             |
| Tolsura       |              |          |             |
| Voriconazole  |              |          |             |

## Length of Authorizations

For the duration of the prescription (up to 180 days)

## Prior Authorization Criteria

1.  Is there any reason the patient cannot be changed to a medication not requiring prior approval? Acceptable reasons include:
    -   Allergy to medications not requiring prior approval
    -   Contraindication to or drug-to-drug interaction with medications not requiring prior approval:
        -   Drug interactions (inhibition of CYP450 system) Ketoconazole \> Itraconazole\> Voriconazole \>Fluconazole
    -   History of unacceptable/toxic side effects to medications not requiring prior approval
2.  If the patient has a serious illness that causes them to be immunocompromised [i.e. AIDS, cancer, organ (solid or non-solid) transplant] then may approve the requested medication.
3.  If there have been therapeutic failures to no less than a **7-day** trial of at least **one** medication not requiring prior approval, then may approve the requested medication.

## Additional Criteria

### Information

Additional Information to Aid in the Final Decision

1.  If the patient is completing a course of therapy with a medication requiring prior approval, which was initiated in the hospital or other similar location, or if the patient has just become Medicaid eligible and is already on a course of treatment with a medication requiring prior approval, then may approve the requested medication.
2.  If the request is for a diagnosis other than fungal infection, please refer the case to a pharmacist. An off-label use may be approvable for a medication such as Nizoral for advanced prostate cancer or for Cushing’s Syndrome when standard treatments have failed.

## Links

[Criteria](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20221001_UPDL_Criteria_APPROVED.pdf#page=78)

[Preferred Drug List](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20221001_UPDL_APPROVED_.pdf#page=26)

Commit message:

updates until ql in antifungals

docs/Infectious_Disease_Agents/antifungals.md, after:

# Antifungals

This is a subcategory of Infectious Disease Agents.

## Formulary

### Preferred

| Preferred    | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :----------- | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
| Fluconazole  |              |          |             |
| Flucytosine  |              |          |             |
| Griseofulvin |              |          |             |
| Ketoconazole |              |          |             |
| Terbinafine  |              |          |             |

### Non-Preferred

| Non-Preferred | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :------------ | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
| Brexafemme    |              |          |             |
| Cresemba      |              |          |             |
| Itraconazole  |              |          |             |
| Noxafil Susp  |              |          |             |
| Oravig        |              |          |             |
| Posaconazole  |              |          |             |
| Tolsura       |              |          |             |
| Voriconazole  |              |          |             |

## Length of Authorizations

Based on indication

## All Authorizations

Must be prescribed in accordance with FDA approved labeling

## Non-Preferred Criteria

- Must provide documentation of medical necessity beyond convenience for why the patient cannot be changed to a preferred drug (i.e., allergies, drug-drug interactions, contraindications, or intolerances) **OR**
    - For any nonsolid oral dosage formulation: must provide documentation of medical necessity for why patient cannot be changed to a solid oral dosage formulation
- Must have had an inadequate clinical response of at least **7 days** with at least **one preferred** drug
    - For non-preferred extended-release formulations: must provide documentation of an inadequate clinical response with its immediate release formulation (if available)
    - For non-preferred brand names that have preferred generics: must provide documentation of an inadequate clinical response or allergy to two or more generic labelers (if available)

## Additional Information

- Requests may be authorized if:
    - The infection is caused by an organism resistant to **ALL** preferred antifungals (must provide diagnosis and any culture/sensitivity results)
    - The patient is completing a course of therapy that was started in the hospital or other similar location or was started before Medicaid eligibility, only the remaining course will be authorized


## Subsequent Authorization Criteria

- Must provide documentation of patient's clinical response to treatment and ongoing safety monitoring, **AND** medical necessity for continued use

## Links

[Criteria](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20230101_UPDL%20_Criteria_APPROVED.pdf#page=80)

[Preferred Drug List](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20230101_UPDL_APPROVED_12.13.22.pdf#page=26)

[Quantity Limit List](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20230101_Ohio_Medicaid_Quantity_Document_APPROVED.pdf)
