docs/Genitourinary_Agents/benign_prostatic_hyperplasia.md, before:

# Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia

This is a subcategory of Genitourinary Agents.

## Formulary

### Preferred

| Preferred             | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :-------------------- | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
| Alfuzosin             |              |          |             |
| Doxazosin             |              |          |             |
| Dutasteride           |              |          |             |
| Finasteride           |              |          |             |
| Prazosin              |              |          |             |
| Tadalafil PA 2.5, 5mg |              |          |             |
| Tamsulosin            |              |          |             |
| Terazosin             |              |          |             |

### Non-Preferred

| Non-Preferred          | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :--------------------- | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
| Cardura XL             |              |          |             |
| Dutasteride/Tamsulosin |              |          |             |
| Silodosin              |              |          |             |

## Length of Authorizations

365 Days

## Prior Authorization Criteria

1.  Is there any reason the patient cannot be changed to a medication not requiring prior approval? Acceptable reasons include:
    1.  Allergy to medications not requiring prior approval
    2.  Contraindications to or drug interaction with medications not requiring prior approval
    3.  History of unacceptable/toxic side effects to medications not requiring prior approval
2.  Patient must have a therapeutic failure to no less than a **30-day** trial on at least **two** medications that are preferred.

## Additional Criteria
### Tadalafil (CIALIS)

Additional Criteria for Approval of Tadalafil (CIALIS)

Patient must have diagnosis of benign prostatic hyperplasia and have a therapeutic failure to no less than a 30-day trial on at least one alpha-1 adrenergic blocker and a 90-day trial of finasteride.

## Links

[Criteria](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20221001_UPDL_Criteria_APPROVED.pdf#page=68)

[Preferred Drug List](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20221001_UPDL_APPROVED_.pdf#page=24)

Commit message:

updates until ql in hyperplasia

docs/Genitourinary_Agents/benign_prostatic_hyperplasia.md, after:

# Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia

This is a subcategory of Genitourinary Agents.

## Formulary

### Preferred

| Preferred             | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :-------------------- | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
| Alfuzosin             |              |          |             |
| Doxazosin             |              |          |             |
| Dutasteride           |              |          |             |
| Finasteride           |              |          |             |
| Prazosin              |              |          |             |
| Tadalafil <sup>PA</sup> 2.5, 5 MG |              |          |             |
| Tamsulosin            |              |          |             |
| Terazosin             |              |          |             |

### Non-Preferred

| Non-Preferred          | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :--------------------- | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
| Cardura XL             |              |          |             |
| Dutasteride / Tamsulosin |              |          |             |
| Silodosin              |              |          |             |

## Length of Authorizations

365 Days

## All Authorizations

Must be prescribed in accordance with FDA approved labeling

## Non-Preferred Criteria

- Must provide documentation of medical necessity beyond convenience for why the patient cannot be changed to a preferred drug (i.e., allergies, drug-drug interactions, contraindications, or intolerances) **OR**
    - For any nonsolid oral dosage formulation: must provide documentation of medical necessity for why patient cannot be changed to a solid oral dosage formulation
- Must have had an inadequate clinical response of at least **30 days** with at least **two preferred** drugs
    - For non-preferred extended-release formulations: must provide documentation of an inadequate clinical response with its immediate release formulation (if available)
    - For non-preferred brand names that have preferred generics: must provide documentation of an inadequate clinical response or allergy to two or more generic labelers (if available)

## Dutasteride / Tamsulosin (Jalyn)

Additional Dutasteride / Tamsulosin (Jalyn) Criteria

- Must provide documentation for patient’s inability to use the individual drugs

## Subsequent Authorization Criteria

- Must provide documentation of patient's clinical response to treatment and ongoing safety monitoring

## Links

[Criteria](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20230101_UPDL%20_Criteria_APPROVED.pdf#page=70)

[Preferred Drug List](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20230101_UPDL_APPROVED_12.13.22.pdf#page=24)

[Quantity Limit List](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20230101_Ohio_Medicaid_Quantity_Document_APPROVED.pdf)
