docs/Analgesic_Agents/opioids.md, before:

# Opioids

This is a subcategory of Analgesic Agents.

**Ohio law requires prescribers to request and review an OARRS report before initially prescribing or personally furnishing any controlled substance, such as an opioid analgesic or a benzodiazepine, and gabapentin**

## Formulary

### Preferred

| Preferred                                               | Generic Name                                               |         Quantity          |        Time (Days)        |
| :------------------------------------------------------ | :--------------------------------------------------------- | :-----------------------: | :-----------------------: |
| Acetaminophen/Codeine <sup>QL</sup>                     | Acetaminophen w/ Codeine Tab 300-15 MG                     |            408            |            34             |
| Acetaminophen / Codeine <sup>QL</sup>                   | Acetaminophen w/ Codeine Tab 300-30 MG                     |            204            |            34             |
| Acetaminophen / Codeine <sup>QL</sup>                   | Acetaminophen w/ Codeine Tab 300-60 MG                     |            102            |            34             |
| Acetaminophen / Codeine <sup>QL</sup>                   | Acetaminophen w/ Codeine Soln 120-12 MG / 5 ML             |           2822            |            34             |
| Butalbital/Acetaminophen/Caffeine/Codeine <sup>QL</sup> | Butalbital-APAP-Caffeine w/ Codeine Cap 50-325-40-30 MG    |            238            |            34             |
| Butalbital/Aspirin/Caffeine/Codeine <sup>QL</sup>       | Butalbital-Aspirin-Caffeine w/ Codeine Cap 50-325-40-30 MG |            238            |            34             |
| Butorphanol <sup>QL</sup>                               | Butorphanol Soln 10 MG/ML                                  |            2.5            |            30             |
| Butrans <sup>BvG PA QL</sup>                            | Buprenorphine TD Patch Weekly (all strengths)              | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Codeine <sup>QL</sup>                                   | Codeine Sulfate Tab 15 MG                                  |            408            |            34             |
| Codeine <sup>QL</sup>                                   | Codeine Sulfate Tab 30 MG                                  |            204            |            34             |
| Codeine <sup>QL</sup>                                   | Codeine Sulfate Tab 60 MG                                  |            102            |            34             |
| Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                 | Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen Tab 5-300 MG                     | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                 | Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen Tab 5-325 MG                     |            204            |            34             |
| Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                 | Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen Tab 7.5-300 MG                   | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                 | Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen Tab 7.5-325 MG                   |            136            |            34             |
| Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                 | Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen Tab 10-300 MG                    | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                 | Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen Tab 10-325 MG                    |            102            |            35             |
| Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                 | Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen Soln 7.5-325 MG / 15 ML          |           2040            |            34             |
| Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                 | Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen Soln 7.5-500 MG / 15 ML          | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                 | Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen Soln 10-300 MG / 15 ML           | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                 | Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen Soln 10-325 MG / 15 ML           |           3060            |            34             |
| Hydromorphone IR <sup>QL</sup>                          |                                                            |                           |                           |
| Morphine IR <sup>QL</sup>                               | Morphine Sulfate IR Tab 15 MG                              |            68             |            34             |
| Morphine IR <sup>QL</sup>                               | Morphine Sulfate IR Tab 30 MG                              |            34             |            34             |
| Morphine Soln <sup>QL</sup>                             | Morphine Sulfate Oral Soln 10 MG / 5 ML                    |            510            |            34             |
| Morphine Soln <sup>QL</sup>                             | Morphine Sulfate Oral Soln 20 MG / 5 ML                    |            204            |            34             |
| Morphine Soln <sup>QL</sup>                             | Morphine Sulfate Oral Soln 100 MG / 5 ML (20 MG / ML)      |            68             |            34             |
| Morphine ER Tab <sup>PA QL</sup>                        | Morphine Sulfate ER Tab (all strengths)                    | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Nucynta IR <sup>QL</sup>                                |                                                            |                           |                           |
| Nucynta ER <sup>PA QL</sup>                             |                                                            |                           |                           |
| Oxycodone <sup>QL</sup>                                 | Oxycodone HCI Cap 5 MG                                     |            136            |            34             |
| Oxycodone <sup>QL</sup>                                 | Oxycodone HCI Tab (all strengths excl 5 MG & 10 MG)        |            34             |            34             |
| Oxycodone <sup>QL</sup>                                 | Oxycodone HCI Tab 5 MG                                     |            136            |            34             |
| Oxycodone <sup>QL</sup>                                 | Oxycodone HCI Tab 10 MG                                    |            68             |            34             |
| Oxycodone <sup>QL</sup>                                 | Oxycodone HCI Tab Abuse Deterrent 5 MG                     |            272            |            34             |
| Oxycodone <sup>QL</sup>                                 | Oxycodone HCI Tab Abuse Deterrent 7.5 MG                   |            170            |            34             |
| Oxycodone <sup>QL</sup>                                 | Oxycodone HCI Soln 5 MG / 5 ML                             |            680            |            34             |
| Oxycodone/Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                   | Oxycodone w/ Acetaminophen Tab 2.5-325 MG                  |            272            |            34             |
| Oxycodone/Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                   | Oxycodone w/ Acetaminophen Tab 5-325 MG                    |            136            |            34             |
| Oxycodone/Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                   | Oxycodone w/ Acetaminophen Tab 7.5-325 MG                  |            102            |            34             |
| Oxycodone/Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                   | Oxycodone w/ Acetaminophen Tab 10-325 MG                   |            68             |            34             |
| Oxycodone/Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                   | Oxycodone w/ Acetaminophen Soln 5-325 MG / 5 ML            |            680            |            34             |
| Tramadol <sup>QL</sup>                                  | Tramadol HCI Tab 50 MG                                     |            204            |            34             |
| Tramadol <sup>QL</sup>                                  | Tramadol HCI 100 MG                                        |            136            |            34             |
| Tramadol <sup>QL</sup>                                  | Tramadol HCI Soln (all strengths)                          | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Tramadol / Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                  | Tramadol-Acetaminophen Tab 37.5-325 MG                     |            272            |            34             |

### Non-Preferred

| Non-Preferred                         | Generic Name                                                       |         Quantity          |        Time (Days)        |
| :------------------------------------ | :----------------------------------------------------------------- | :-----------------------: | :-----------------------: |
| Acetaminophen / Caffeine / Dihydrocodone <sup>QL</sup>       | Acetaminophen / Caffeine / Dihydrocodone Cap / Tab (all strengths) | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Belbuca <sup>QL</sup>                        | Buprenorphine Buccal Film (all strengths)                          | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Benzhydrocodone / Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>              | Benzhydrocodone / Acetaminophen (all strengths)                     | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Buprenorphine TD Patch Weekly <sup>QL</sup>                   | Buprenorphine TD Patch Weekly (all strengths)                      | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Butalbital / Acetaminophen / Caffeine / Codeine 50 / 300 / 40 / 30mg <sup>QL</sup> | Butalbital-APAP-Caffeine w/ Codeine Cap 50-325-40-30 MG            |            238            |            34             |
| Dsuvia <sup>QL</sup>                                | Sufentanil Sublingual Tab (all strengths)                          | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Fentanyl <sup>QL</sup>                              | Fentanyl TD Patch (all strengths)                                  | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Hydrocodone Bitartrate ER 12HR Cap <sup>QL</sup> |                                                                    |                           |                           |
| Hydrocodone Bitartrate ER 24HR Tab <sup>QL</sup> |                                                                    |                           |                           |
| Hydrocodone / Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                   | Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen 5-300 MG                                 | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Hydrocodone / Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                   | Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen 7.5-300 MG                               | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Hydrocodone / Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                   | Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen 10-300 MG                                | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Hydrocodone / Ibuprofen <sup>QL</sup>              |  Hydrocodone / Ibuprofen Tab (all strengths)                                                                  |     Determined pursuant to PA                      | Determined pursuant to PA                          |
| Hydromorphone ER <sup>QL</sup>                   |                                                                    |                           |                           |
| Levorphanol <sup>QL</sup>                           | Levorphanol Tab (all strengths)                                    | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Meperidine <sup>QL</sup>                            | Meperidine HCI (all strengths & formulations)                      | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Methadone <sup>QL</sup>                            | Methadone Concentrate Soln / Tab                              | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Morphine ER 24HR Cap QL               |                                                                    |                           |                           |
| Oxaydo <sup>QL</sup>                               | | | |
| Oxycodone ER <sup>QL</sup>                       |                                                                    |                           |                           |
| Oxycodone/Ibuprofen QL                |  Oxycodone / Ibuprofen (all strengths)                                                                 |        Determined pursuant to PA                   |  Determined pursuant to PA                         |
| Oxymorphone IR, ER <sup>QL</sup>                       | Oxymorphone HCI Tab IR / ER (all strengths)                                | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Pentazocine / Naloxone <sup>QL</sup>               | Pentazocine / Naloxone Tab (all strengths)                         | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Seglentis <sup>QL</sup>                         |  Celecoxib / Tramadol (all strengths)                                                                  | Determined pursuant to PA                  |  Determined pursuant to PA                         |
| Tramadol ER <sup>QL</sup>                       | Tramadol HCI ER / Soln (all strengths)                                                                   | Determined pursuant to PA                | Determined pursuant to PA                           |
| Xtampza ER <sup>QL</sup>                           | Oxycodone ER Cap (all strengths)                                   | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |

## Length of Authorizations

For the course of therapy, up to 180 days

**All Authorizations**: Must be prescribed in accordance with FDA approved labeling

## Additional Criteria

### Non-Preferred

-   Must provide documentation of medical necessity beyond convenience for why the patient cannot be changed to a preferred drug (i.e., allergies, drug-drug interactions, contraindications, or intolerances) **OR**
    -   For any nonsolid oral dosage formulation: must provide documentation of medical necessity for why patient cannot be changed to a solid oral dosage formulation
-   Must have had an inadequate clinical response of at least **7 days** of at least **two unrelated** preferred drugs
    -   For non-preferred extended-release formulations: must provide documentation of an inadequate clinical response with its immediate release formulation (if available)
    -   For non-preferred brand names that have preferred generics: must provide documentation of an inadequate clinical response or allergy to two or more generic labelers (if available)

### Short-Acting for New Starts

Additional SHORT-ACTING Opioids Criteria for New Starts

-   The system defines a “new start” as having no opioid claims in the previous 90 days
-   **Initial short-acting requests** can be authorized up to 90 days
    -   Length of authorization is dependent on indication, previous patient utilization, and requested length of therapy (could be more restrictive)
    -   To exceed acute opioid limits, documentation of the following must be provided:
        -   Diagnosis code which must be for somatic type pain
        -   Prescriber attestation that the benefits and risks of opioid therapy has been discussed with patient
    -   Exemptions to the additional criteria:
        -   Patients receiving short-acting opioids for active cancer treatment, palliative care, and end-of-life/hospice care, sickle cell, severe burn, traumatic crushing of tissue, amputation, major orthopedic surgery
        -   Prescriber attestation that patient is not opioid naïve (i.e., new to Medicaid or was on higher dose in hospital)

### Long-Acting

Additional LONG-ACTING Opioids Criteria

-   **Initial long-acting requests** can be authorized up to 90 days
    -   Documentation of the following must be provided:
        -   Request is a daily dose equivalent of ≤ 80 MED
        -   Inadequate clinical response to both non-opioid pharmacologic and non-pharmacologic treatments
        -   History of short-acting opioids for ≥ 60 days
        -   Treatment plan including risk assessment, substance abuse history, concurrent therapies, and requirements for random urine screenings (baseline urine drug tests must be submitted)
        -   Pain and function scores at each visit
        -   Opioid contract required to be in place and submitted with PA form
    -   Exemptions to the additional criteria:
        -   Patients receiving long-acting opioids for catastrophic injury or cancer pain
-   **Subsequent long-acting requests** can be authorized up to 180 days
    -   Documentation of the following must be provided:
        -   Current treatment plan
        -   Demonstrated adherence to treatment plan through progress notes, including pain and function scores, random urine screenings results reviewed, concerns addressed, and no serious adverse outcomes observed
-   **Dose escalation requests** can be authorized up to 180 days
    -   Documentation of the following must be provided:
        -   Prescriber attestation that dose escalation is likely to result in improved function and pain control
        -   Requests for a daily dose \>100 MED must be prescribed by pain specialist or anesthesiologist consultation

### Transmucosal Fentanyl 


Additional Transmucosal Fentanyl Criteria

-   Must be prescribed by an oncologist, pain specialist, or hospice/palliative prescriber
-   Must be concurrently taking a long-acting opioid at a therapeutic dose of any of the following for at least **7 days** without adequate pain relief:

|                                  |                                      |
| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| ≥ 60 mg oral morphine/day        | ≥ 8 mg oral hydromorphone/day        |
| ≥ 25 mcg/hr transdermal fentanyl | ≥ 25 mg oral oxymorphone/day         |
| ≥ 30 mg oral oxycodone/day       | Equianalgesic dose of another opioid |

**QL** – Transmucosal Fentanyl: 4 doses per day

Effective July 1, 2018, patients with short acting opioid therapy will be limited to 30 MED per prescription and a maximum of 7 days per prescription. Prior authorization will be required to exceed these limits

## Links

[Criteria](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20221001_UPDL_Criteria_APPROVED.pdf#page=8)

[Preferred Drug List](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20221001_UPDL_APPROVED_.pdf#page=7)

Commit message:

current completion of updates to opioids

docs/Analgesic_Agents/opioids.md, after:

# Opioids

This is a subcategory of Analgesic Agents.

**Ohio law requires prescribers to request and review an OARRS report before initially prescribing or personally furnishing any controlled substance, such as an opioid analgesic or a benzodiazepine, and gabapentin**

## Formulary

### Preferred

| Preferred                                               | Generic Name                                               |         Quantity          |        Time (Days)        |
| :------------------------------------------------------ | :--------------------------------------------------------- | :-----------------------: | :-----------------------: |
| Acetaminophen/Codeine <sup>QL</sup>                     | Acetaminophen w/ Codeine Tab 300-15 MG                     |            408            |            34             |
| Acetaminophen / Codeine <sup>QL</sup>                   | Acetaminophen w/ Codeine Tab 300-30 MG                     |            204            |            34             |
| Acetaminophen / Codeine <sup>QL</sup>                   | Acetaminophen w/ Codeine Tab 300-60 MG                     |            102            |            34             |
| Acetaminophen / Codeine <sup>QL</sup>                   | Acetaminophen w/ Codeine Soln 120-12 MG / 5 ML             |           2822            |            34             |
| Butalbital/Acetaminophen/Caffeine/Codeine <sup>QL</sup> | Butalbital-APAP-Caffeine w/ Codeine Cap 50-325-40-30 MG    |            238            |            34             |
| Butalbital/Aspirin/Caffeine/Codeine <sup>QL</sup>       | Butalbital-Aspirin-Caffeine w/ Codeine Cap 50-325-40-30 MG |            238            |            34             |
| Butorphanol <sup>QL</sup>                               | Butorphanol Soln 10 MG/ML                                  |            2.5            |            30             |
| Butrans <sup>BvG PA QL</sup>                            | Buprenorphine TD Patch Weekly (all strengths)              | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Codeine <sup>QL</sup>                                   | Codeine Sulfate Tab 15 MG                                  |            408            |            34             |
| Codeine <sup>QL</sup>                                   | Codeine Sulfate Tab 30 MG                                  |            204            |            34             |
| Codeine <sup>QL</sup>                                   | Codeine Sulfate Tab 60 MG                                  |            102            |            34             |
| Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                 | Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen Tab 5-325 MG                     |            204            |            34             |
| Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                 | Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen Tab 7.5-325 MG                   |            136            |            34             |
| Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                 | Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen Tab 10-325 MG                    |            102            |            34             |
| Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                 | Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen Soln 7.5-325 MG / 15 ML          |           2040            |            34             |
| Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                 | Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen Soln 7.5-500 MG / 15 ML          | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                 | Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen Soln 10-300 MG / 15 ML           | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                 | Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen Soln 10-325 MG / 15 ML           |           3060            |            34             |
| Hydromorphone IR <sup>QL</sup>                          |                                                            |                           |                           |
| Morphine IR <sup>QL</sup>                               | Morphine Sulfate IR Tab 15 MG                              |            68             |            34             |
| Morphine IR <sup>QL</sup>                               | Morphine Sulfate IR Tab 30 MG                              |            34             |            34             |
| Morphine Soln <sup>QL</sup>                             | Morphine Sulfate Oral Soln 10 MG / 5 ML                    |            510            |            34             |
| Morphine Soln <sup>QL</sup>                             | Morphine Sulfate Oral Soln 20 MG / 5 ML                    |            204            |            34             |
| Morphine Soln <sup>QL</sup>                             | Morphine Sulfate Oral Soln 100 MG / 5 ML (20 MG / ML)      |            68             |            34             |
| Morphine ER Tab <sup>PA QL</sup>                        | Morphine Sulfate ER Tab (all strengths)                    | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Nucynta IR <sup>QL</sup>                                |                                                            |                           |                           |
| Nucynta ER <sup>PA QL</sup>                             |                                                            |                           |                           |
| Oxycodone <sup>QL</sup>                                 | Oxycodone HCI Cap 5 MG                                     |            136            |            34             |
| Oxycodone <sup>QL</sup>                                 | Oxycodone HCI Tab (all strengths excl 5 MG & 10 MG)        |            34             |            34             |
| Oxycodone <sup>QL</sup>                                 | Oxycodone HCI Tab 5 MG                                     |            136            |            34             |
| Oxycodone <sup>QL</sup>                                 | Oxycodone HCI Tab 10 MG                                    |            68             |            34             |
| Oxycodone <sup>QL</sup>                                 | Oxycodone HCI Tab Abuse Deterrent 5 MG                     |            272            |            34             |
| Oxycodone <sup>QL</sup>                                 | Oxycodone HCI Tab Abuse Deterrent 7.5 MG                   |            170            |            34             |
| Oxycodone <sup>QL</sup>                                 | Oxycodone HCI Soln 5 MG / 5 ML                             |            680            |            34             |
| Oxycodone/Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                   | Oxycodone w/ Acetaminophen Tab 2.5-325 MG                  |            272            |            34             |
| Oxycodone/Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                   | Oxycodone w/ Acetaminophen Tab 5-325 MG                    |            136            |            34             |
| Oxycodone/Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                   | Oxycodone w/ Acetaminophen Tab 7.5-325 MG                  |            102            |            34             |
| Oxycodone/Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                   | Oxycodone w/ Acetaminophen Tab 10-325 MG                   |            68             |            34             |
| Oxycodone/Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                   | Oxycodone w/ Acetaminophen Soln 5-325 MG / 5 ML            |            680            |            34             |
| Tramadol <sup>QL</sup>                                  | Tramadol HCI Tab 50 MG                                     |            204            |            34             |
| Tramadol <sup>QL</sup>                                  | Tramadol HCI 100 MG                                        |            136            |            34             |
| Tramadol / Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                  | Tramadol-Acetaminophen Tab 37.5-325 MG                     |            272            |            34             |

### Non-Preferred

| Non-Preferred                         | Generic Name                                                       |         Quantity          |        Time (Days)        |
| :------------------------------------ | :----------------------------------------------------------------- | :-----------------------: | :-----------------------: |
| Acetaminophen / Caffeine / Dihydrocodone <sup>QL</sup>       | Acetaminophen / Caffeine / Dihydrocodone Cap / Tab (all strengths) | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Belbuca <sup>QL</sup>                        | Buprenorphine Buccal Film (all strengths)                          | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Benzhydrocodone / Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>              | Benzhydrocodone / Acetaminophen (all strengths)                     | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Buprenorphine TD Patch Weekly <sup>QL</sup>                   | Buprenorphine TD Patch Weekly (all strengths)                      | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Butalbital / Acetaminophen / Caffeine / Codeine 50 / 300 / 40 / 30mg <sup>QL</sup> | Butalbital-APAP-Caffeine w/ Codeine Cap 50-325-40-30 MG            |            238            |            34             |
| Dsuvia <sup>QL</sup>                                | Sufentanil Sublingual Tab (all strengths)                          | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Fentanyl <sup>QL</sup>                              | Fentanyl TD Patch (all strengths)                                  | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Hydrocodone Bitartrate ER 12HR Cap <sup>QL</sup> |                                                                    |                           |                           |
| Hydrocodone Bitartrate ER 24HR Tab <sup>QL</sup> |                                                                    |                           |                           |
| Hydrocodone / Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                   | Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen 5-300 MG                                 | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Hydrocodone / Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                   | Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen 7.5-300 MG                               | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Hydrocodone / Acetaminophen <sup>QL</sup>                   | Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen 10-300 MG                                | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Hydrocodone / Ibuprofen <sup>QL</sup>              |  Hydrocodone / Ibuprofen Tab (all strengths)                                                                  |     Determined pursuant to PA                      | Determined pursuant to PA                          |
| Hydromorphone ER <sup>QL</sup>                   |                                                                    |                           |                           |
| Levorphanol <sup>QL</sup>                           | Levorphanol Tab (all strengths)                                    | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Meperidine <sup>QL</sup>                            | Meperidine HCI (all strengths & formulations)                      | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Methadone <sup>QL</sup>                            | Methadone Concentrate Soln / Tab                              | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Morphine ER 24HR Cap QL               |                                                                    |                           |                           |
| Oxaydo <sup>QL</sup>                               | | | |
| Oxycodone ER <sup>QL</sup>                       |                                                                    |                           |                           |
| Oxycodone/Ibuprofen QL                |  Oxycodone / Ibuprofen (all strengths)                                                                 |        Determined pursuant to PA                   |  Determined pursuant to PA                         |
| Oxymorphone IR, ER <sup>QL</sup>                       | Oxymorphone HCI Tab IR / ER (all strengths)                                | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Pentazocine / Naloxone <sup>QL</sup>               | Pentazocine / Naloxone Tab (all strengths)                         | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |
| Seglentis <sup>QL</sup>                         |  Celecoxib / Tramadol (all strengths)                                                                  | Determined pursuant to PA                  |  Determined pursuant to PA                         |
| Tramadol ER <sup>QL</sup>                       | Tramadol HCI ER / Soln (all strengths)                                                                   | Determined pursuant to PA                | Determined pursuant to PA                           |
| Xtampza ER <sup>QL</sup>                           | Oxycodone ER Cap (all strengths)                                   | Determined pursuant to PA | Determined pursuant to PA |

## Length of Authorizations

For the course of therapy, up to 180 days

**All Authorizations**: Must be prescribed in accordance with FDA approved labeling

## Additional Criteria

### Buprenorphine Topical (Butrans)

Buprenorphine Topical (Butrans) Criteria

- Must provide documentation of an inadequate clinical response of at least **60 consecutive days** with at least **one** immediate release opioid formulation
- Must provide documentation of medical necessity for why patient cannot be changed to a solid oral dosage formulation

### Morphine Sulfate ER (Kadian, MS Contin) & Tapentadol ER (Nucynta)

Morphine Sulfate ER (Kadian, MS Contin) & Tapentadol ER (Nucynta) Criteria

- Must provide documentation of an inadequate clinical response of at least **60 consecutive days** with at least **one** immediate release opioid formulation

### Non-Preferred

-   Must provide documentation of medical necessity beyond convenience for why the patient cannot be changed to a preferred drug (i.e., allergies, drug-drug interactions, contraindications, or intolerances) **OR**
    -   For any nonsolid oral dosage formulation: must provide documentation of medical necessity for why patient cannot be changed to a solid oral dosage formulation
-   Must have had an inadequate clinical response of at least **7 days** of at least **two unrelated** preferred drugs
    -   For non-preferred extended-release formulations: must provide documentation of an inadequate clinical response with its immediate release formulation (if available)
    -   For non-preferred brand names that have preferred generics: must provide documentation of an inadequate clinical response or allergy to two or more generic labelers (if available)

### Short-Acting for New Starts

Additional SHORT-ACTING Opioids Criteria for New Starts

-   The system defines a “new start” as having no opioid claims in the previous 90 days
-   **Initial short-acting requests** can be authorized up to 90 days
    -   Length of authorization is dependent on indication, previous patient utilization, and requested length of therapy (could be more restrictive)
    -   To exceed acute opioid limits, documentation of the following must be provided:
        -   Diagnosis code which must be for somatic type pain
        -   Prescriber attestation that the benefits and risks of opioid therapy has been discussed with patient
    -   Exemptions to the additional criteria:
        -   Patients receiving short-acting opioids for active cancer treatment, palliative care, and end-of-life/hospice care, sickle cell, severe burn, traumatic crushing of tissue, amputation, major orthopedic surgery
        -   Prescriber attestation that patient is not opioid naïve (i.e., new to Medicaid or was on higher dose in hospital)
- **Subsequent short-acting requests** can be authorized up to 180 days
    - Documentation of the following must be provided:
        - Current treatment plan
        - Demonstrated adherence to treatment plan through progress notes, including pain and function scores, random urine screenings results reviewed, concerns addressed, and no serious adverse outcomes observed
- **Dose escalation requests** can be authorized up to 180 days
    - Documentation of the following must be provided:
        - Prescriber attestation that dose escalation is likely to result in improved function and pain control
        - Requests for a cumulative daily dose >100 MED must be prescribed by or in consultation with a pain specialist or anesthesiologist consultation

Effective July 1, 2018, patients with short acting opioid therapy will be limited to 30 MED per day and a maximum of 7 days per prescription. Prior authorization will be required to exceed these limits.

### Long-Acting

Additional LONG-ACTING Opioids Criteria

-   **Initial long-acting requests** can be authorized up to 90 days
    -   Documentation of the following must be provided:
        -   Request is a daily dose equivalent of ≤ 80 MED
        -   Inadequate clinical response to both non-opioid pharmacologic and non-pharmacologic treatments
        -   History of short-acting opioids for ≥ 60 days
        -   Treatment plan including risk assessment, substance abuse history, concurrent therapies, and requirements for random urine screenings (baseline urine drug tests must be submitted)
        -   Pain and function scores at each visit
        -   Opioid contract required to be in place and submitted with PA form
    -   Exemptions to the additional criteria:
        -   Patients receiving long-acting opioids for catastrophic injury or cancer pain
-   **Subsequent long-acting requests** can be authorized up to 180 days
    -   Documentation of the following must be provided:
        -   Current treatment plan
        -   Demonstrated adherence to treatment plan through progress notes, including pain and function scores, random urine screenings results reviewed, concerns addressed, and no serious adverse outcomes observed
-   **Dose escalation requests** can be authorized up to 180 days
    -   Documentation of the following must be provided:
        -   Prescriber attestation that dose escalation is likely to result in improved function and pain control
        -   Requests for a daily dose \>100 MED must be prescribed by pain specialist or anesthesiologist consultation

### Transmucosal Fentanyl 


Additional Transmucosal Fentanyl Criteria

-   Must be prescribed by an oncologist, pain specialist, or hospice/palliative prescriber
-   Must be concurrently taking a long-acting opioid at a therapeutic dose of any of the following for at least **7 days** without adequate pain relief:

|                                  |                                      |
| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| ≥ 60 mg oral morphine/day        | ≥ 8 mg oral hydromorphone/day        |
| ≥ 25 mcg/hr transdermal fentanyl | ≥ 25 mg oral oxymorphone/day         |
| ≥ 30 mg oral oxycodone/day       | Equianalgesic dose of another opioid |

**QL** – Transmucosal Fentanyl: 4 doses per day

Effective July 1, 2018, patients with short acting opioid therapy will be limited to 30 MED per prescription and a maximum of 7 days per prescription. Prior authorization will be required to exceed these limits

## Links

[Criteria](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20221001_UPDL_Criteria_APPROVED.pdf#page=8)

[Preferred Drug List](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20221001_UPDL_APPROVED_.pdf#page=7)
