docs/BloodFCT_Agents/oral_anticoagulants.md, before:

# Oral Anticoagulants

This is a subcategory of Blood Formation, Coagulation, and Thrombosis Agents.

## Formulary

### Preferred

| Preferred   | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :---------- | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
| Eliquis     |              |          |             |
| Pradaxa BvG |              |          |             |
| Warfarin    |              |          |             |
| Xarelto     |              |          |             |

### Non-Preferred

| Non-Preferred | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :------------ | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
| Dabigatran    |              |          |             |
| Savaysa       |              |          |             |

## Length of Authorizations

Requested medication must be used for an approved FDA indication and duration

## Prior Authorization Criteria

1.  Is there any reason the patient cannot be changed to a medication not requiring prior approval? Acceptable reasons include:
    -   Allergy to medications not requiring prior approval
    -   Contraindication to all medications not requiring prior approval
    -   History of unacceptable/toxic side effects to medications not requiring prior approval
2.  Has the patient failed a 14-day trial with **two medications** not requiring prior approval?

## Links

[Criteria](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20221001_UPDL_Criteria_APPROVED.pdf#page=14)

[Preferred Drug List](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20221001_UPDL_APPROVED_.pdf#page=9)

Commit message:

current update completion of oral anticoagulants

docs/BloodFCT_Agents/oral_anticoagulants.md, after:

# Oral Anticoagulants

This is a subcategory of Blood Formation, Coagulation, and Thrombosis Agents.

## Formulary

### Preferred

| Preferred   | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :---------- | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
| Eliquis     |              |          |             |
| Pradaxa <sup>BvG</sup> |              |          |             |
| Warfarin    |              |          |             |
| Xarelto Tab <sup>QL</sup>    |  Rivaroxaban Tab (all strengths excl 15 MG)           |  102        |  102           |
| Xarelto Tab <sup>QL</sup>    |  Rivaroxaban Tab 15 MG            |        204  |    102         |

### Non-Preferred

| Non-Preferred | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :------------ | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
| Dabigatran    |              |          |             |
| Savaysa       |              |          |             |
| Xarelto Susp  |              |          |             | 

## Length of Authorizations

365 days

## All Authorizations

Must be prescribed in accordance with FDA approved labeling

## Non-Preferred Criteria

- Must provide documentation of medical necessity beyond convenience for why the patient cannot be changed to a preferred drug (i.e., allergies, drug-drug interactions, contraindications, or intolerances) **OR**
    - For any nonsolid oral dosage formulation: must provide documentation of medical necessity for why patient cannot be changed to a solid oral dosage formulation
- Must have had an inadequate clinical response of at least **14 days** with at least **one preferred** drug
    - For non-preferred extended-release formulations: must provide documentation of an inadequate clinical response with its immediate release formulation (if available)
    - For non-preferred brand names that have preferred generics: must provide documentation of an inadequate clinical response or allergy to two or more generic labelers (if available)

## Subsequent Authorization Criteria

- Must provide documentation of patient's clinical response to treatment and ongoing safety monitoring

## Links

[Criteria](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20230101_UPDL%20_Criteria_APPROVED.pdf#page=17)

[Preferred Drug List](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20230101_UPDL_APPROVED_12.13.22.pdf#page=10)
