docs/UPDL/Respiratory_Agents/cystic_fibrosis.md, before:

# Respiratory Agents: Cystic Fibrosis

**LENGTH OF AUTHORIZATIONS:**

Initial authorization 90 days

Subsequent authorization 365 days

**PRIOR AUTHORIZATION CRITERIA:**

Is there any reason the patient cannot be changed to a medication not requiring prior approval?

Acceptable reasons include:

- Allergy to all medications not requiring prior approval

- Contraindication to or drug-to-drug interaction with medications not requiring prior approval.

- History of unacceptable/toxic side effects to medications not requiring prior approval

**INITIAL AUTHORIZATION CRITERIA FOR BRONCHITOL, KALYDECO, ORKAMBI, SYMDEKO AND TRIKAFTA:**

1. Patient must meet all the following criteria:

    - Diagnosis of cystic fibrosis
    - The prescriber is, or has consulted with a pulmonologist or infectious disease specialist
    - Patient meets the FDA-approved age minimum for the requested medication

**ADDITIONAL CRITERIA FOR BRONCHITOL:**

- Bronchitol must be used as an add-on maintenance therapy

- Patients must have passed the Bronchitol Tolerance Test

**ADDITIONAL CRITERIA FOR KALYDECO, ORKAMBI, SYMDEKO AND TRIKAFTA:**

- Patient has documentation (must include with PA request) of the genetic mutation(s) that the FDA approved the requested medication to treat

**Reauthorization Criteria:**

Patient may be approved for reauthorization if they meet all the following criteria:

- Patient must meet all initial criteria

- Patient’s adherence to medication is confirmed by claim history
- Chart notes submitted with stabilization OR improvement of FEV1 AND with one or more of the following:
  - Stabilization or improvement of weight gain
  - Stabilization or improvement in sweat chloride
  - Decrease in the number of pulmonary exacerbations or their severity
  - Decrease in the number or severity of pulmonary infections
  - Decrease in the number of hospitalizations
  - Increased Cystic Fibrosis Questionnaire-Revised (CFQ-R) respiratory domain score
  - Other documentation by the physician clearly explaining the ongoing benefit of continuing the drug based on stated and documented objective evidence of improvement or a clear stabilization in a previous decline in one of the above parameters

## Cystic Fibrosis

| Respiratory Agents: Cystic Fibrosis               |                |
|---------------------------------------------------|----------------|
| PREFERRED                                         | NON-PREFERRED  |
| Kalydeco PA                                       | Bronchitol     |
| Orkambi PA                                        |                |
| Symdeko PA                                        |                |
| Trikafta PA                                       |                |

**Link to Criteria:** [Respiratory Agents: Cystic Fibrosis](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20220415_UPDL_Criteria_FINAL_.pdf#page=88)

Commit message:

Completion of Additional Markdown Changes

docs/UPDL/Respiratory_Agents/cystic_fibrosis.md, after:

# Respiratory Agents: Cystic Fibrosis

## Length Of Authorizations

Initial authorization 90 days

Subsequent authorization 365 days

## Prior AUthorization Criteria

Is there any reason the patient cannot be changed to a medication not requiring prior approval?

Acceptable reasons include:

- Allergy to all medications not requiring prior approval

- Contraindication to or drug-to-drug interaction with medications not requiring prior approval.

- History of unacceptable/toxic side effects to medications not requiring prior approval

## Initial Authorization Criteria For Bronchitol, Kalydeco, Orkambi, Symdeko And Trikafta

1. Patient must meet all the following criteria:

    - Diagnosis of cystic fibrosis
    - The prescriber is, or has consulted with a pulmonologist or infectious disease specialist
    - Patient meets the FDA-approved age minimum for the requested medication

## Additional Criteria For Bronchitol

- Bronchitol must be used as an add-on maintenance therapy

- Patients must have passed the Bronchitol Tolerance Test

## Additional Criteria For Kalydeco, Orkambi, Symdeko And Trikafta

- Patient has documentation (must include with PA request) of the genetic mutation(s) that the FDA approved the requested medication to treat

## Reauthorization Criteria

Patient may be approved for reauthorization if they meet all the following criteria:

- Patient must meet all initial criteria

- Patient’s adherence to medication is confirmed by claim history
- Chart notes submitted with stabilization OR improvement of FEV1 AND with one or more of the following:
  - Stabilization or improvement of weight gain
  - Stabilization or improvement in sweat chloride
  - Decrease in the number of pulmonary exacerbations or their severity
  - Decrease in the number or severity of pulmonary infections
  - Decrease in the number of hospitalizations
  - Increased Cystic Fibrosis Questionnaire-Revised (CFQ-R) respiratory domain score
  - Other documentation by the physician clearly explaining the ongoing benefit of continuing the drug based on stated and documented objective evidence of improvement or a clear stabilization in a previous decline in one of the above parameters

## Cystic Fibrosis

Respiratory Agents: Cystic Fibrosis

| PREFERRED | NON-PREFERRED |
| :--- | ---: |
| Kalydeco PA | Bronchitol |
| Orkambi PA  |            |
| Symdeko PA  |            |
| Trikafta PA |            |

### Link to Criteria

[Respiratory Agents: Cystic Fibrosis](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20220415_UPDL_Criteria_FINAL_.pdf#page=88)
