docs/Gastro_Agents/hepatic_encephalopathy.md, before:

# Hepatic Encephalopathy

This is a subcategory of Gastrointestinal Agents.

## Formulary

### Preferred

| Preferred  | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :--------- | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
| Lactulose  |              |          |             |
| Xifaxan ST |              |          |             |

### Non-Preferred

| Non-Preferred | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :------------ | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
|               |              |          |             |

## Length of Authorizations

365 Days

## Prior Authorization Criteria

Is there any reason the patient cannot be changed to a medication not requiring prior approval? Acceptable reasons include:

-   Allergy to medication not requiring prior approval
-   Contraindication to or drug interaction with medication not requiring prior approval
-   History of unacceptable/toxic side effects to medication not requiring prior approval

## Additional Criteria

### Step Therapy

Step Therapy Approval Critera

All agents listed

1.  For a drug requiring step therapy, there must have been inadequate clinical response to a preferred alternative
2.  XIFAXAN requires a diagnosis of hepatic encephalopathy and may be approved for monotherapy or add on therapy if there has been a therapeutic failure (defined as a recurrent episode) while on lactulose

## Links

[Criteria](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20221001_UPDL_Criteria_APPROVED.pdf#page=62)

[Preferred Drug List](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20221001_UPDL_APPROVED_.pdf#page=23)

Commit message:

updates until ql in Hepatic Encephalopathy

docs/Gastro_Agents/hepatic_encephalopathy.md, after:

# Hepatic Encephalopathy

This is a subcategory of Gastrointestinal Agents.

## Formulary

### Preferred

| Preferred  | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :--------- | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
| Lactulose  |              |          |             |
| Xifaxan <sup>ST</sup> |              |          |             |

### Non-Preferred

| Non-Preferred | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :------------ | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
|               |              |          |             |

## Length of Authorizations

365 Days

## All Authorizations

Must be prescribed in accordance with FDA approved labeling

## Step Therapy Criteria

- Must have had an inadequate clinical response of at least **14 days** with at least **one**
preferred drug

## Rifaxamin (Xifaxan)

Rifaxamin (Xifaxan) Criteria

- Must have had an inadequate clinical response of at least **14 days** to lactulose to be authorized for monotherapy or add on therapy

## Non-Preferred Criteria

- Must provide documentation of medical necessity beyond convenience for why the patient cannot be changed to a preferred drug (i.e., allergies, drug-drug interactions, contraindications, or intolerances) **OR**
    - For any nonsolid oral dosage formulation: must provide documentation of medical necessity for why patient cannot be changed to a solid oral dosage formulation
- Must have had an inadequate clinical response of at least **14 days** with at least **two preferred** drugs
    - For non-preferred extended-release formulations: must provide documentation of an inadequate clinical response with its immediate release formulation (if available)
    - For non-preferred brand names that have preferred generics: must provide documentation of an inadequate clinical response or allergy to two or more generic labelers (if available)

## Subsequent Authorization Criteria

- Must provide documentation of patient's clinical response to treatment and ongoing safety monitoring

## Links

[Criteria](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20230101_UPDL%20_Criteria_APPROVED.pdf#page=64)

[Preferred Drug List](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20230101_UPDL_APPROVED_12.13.22.pdf#page=23)

[Quantity Limit List](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20230101_Ohio_Medicaid_Quantity_Document_APPROVED.pdf)
