docs/Gastro_Agents/ulcerative_colitis.md, before:

# Ulcerative Colitis

This is a subcategory of Gastrointestinal Agents.

## Formulary

### Preferred

| Preferred            | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :------------------- | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
| Balsalazide Disodium |              |          |             |
| Budesonide ER Tab QL |              |          |             |
| Lialda BvG           |              |          |             |
| Mesalamine DR Cap    |              |          |             |
| Mesalamine Enema     |              |          |             |
| Mesalamine ER        |              |          |             |
| Pentasa BvG          |              |          |             |
| Sulfasalazine        |              |          |             |

### Non-Preferred

| Non-Preferred     | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :---------------- | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
| Dipentum          |              |          |             |
| Mesalamine DR Tab |              |          |             |
| Mesalamine Supp   |              |          |             |
| Uceris Foam       |              |          |             |
| Zeposia           |              |          |             |

## Length of Authorizations

365 Days

## Prior Authorization Criteria

Is there any reason the patient cannot be changed to a medication not requiring prior approval? Acceptable reasons include:

-   Allergy to medications not requiring prior approval
-   Contraindication to or drug interaction with medications not requiring prior approval
-   History of unacceptable/toxic side effects to medications not requiring prior approval

## Additional Information

1.  Ulcerative Colitis Agents are available in both oral (IR, ER) and rectal (enema, suppository) formulations. Patients with mild or moderate disease may be treated with either rectal or oral agents.
2.  The efficacy among the different 5-ASA derivatives appears to be comparable.

For a non-preferred agent, there must have been inadequate clinical response to preferred alternatives, including a trial of no less than **30 days each** of at least **two** preferred products.

Budesonide ER 9mg tablet quantity limit of 56 tablets per 90 days

## Links

[Criteria](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20221001_UPDL_Criteria_APPROVED.pdf#page=66)

[Preferred Drug List](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20221001_UPDL_APPROVED_.pdf#page=23)

Commit message:

updates until ql in ulcerative colitis

docs/Gastro_Agents/ulcerative_colitis.md, after:

# Ulcerative Colitis

This is a subcategory of Gastrointestinal Agents.

## Formulary

### Preferred

| Preferred            | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :------------------- | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
| Balsalazide Disodium |              |          |             |
| Budesonide ER Tab <sup>QL<sup> |              |          |             |
| Mesalamine DR Cap, Tab   |              |          |             |
| Mesalamine Enema     |              |          |             |
| Mesalamine ER        |              |          |             |
| Pentasa <sup>BvG<sup>          |              |          |             |
| Sulfasalazine        |              |          |             |

### Non-Preferred

| Non-Preferred     | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :---------------- | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
| Dipentum          |              |          |             |
| Mesalamine Supp   |              |          |             |
| Uceris Foam <sup>QL<sup>      |              |          |             |
| Zeposia           |              |          |             |

## Length of Authorizations

365 Days

## All Authorizations

Must be prescribed in accordance with FDA approved labeling

## Non-Preferred Criteria

- Must provide documentation of medical necessity beyond convenience for why the patient cannot be changed to a preferred drug (i.e., allergies, drug-drug interactions, contraindications, or intolerances) **OR**
    - For any nonsolid oral dosage formulation: must provide documentation of medical necessity for why patient cannot be changed to a solid oral dosage formulation
- Must have had an inadequate clinical response of at least **30 days** with at least **two preferred** drugs
    - For non-preferred extended-release formulations: must provide documentation of an inadequate clinical response with its immediate release formulation (if available)
    - For non-preferred brand names that have preferred generics: must provide documentation of an inadequate clinical response or allergy to two or more generic labelers (if available)

## Subsequent Authorization Criteria

- Must provide documentation of patient's clinical response to treatment and ongoing safety monitoring

**QL** - Budesonide ER 9 MG tablets: 56 tablets per 90 days

## Links

[Criteria](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20230101_UPDL%20_Criteria_APPROVED.pdf#page=25)

[Preferred Drug List](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20230101_UPDL_APPROVED_12.13.22.pdf#page=13)

[Quantity Limit List](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20230101_Ohio_Medicaid_Quantity_Document_APPROVED.pdf)
