docs/Clinical and Technical Reference Guide/Calls - Edit Overrides/Edit Overrides.md, before:

---
search:
  boost: 1
---

# Edit Overrides

## Overrides a Tech can place without reaching out to RPh, Sr. Techs or Supervisors**

**As of 1/10/23, effective immediately**

ODM changed the vacation override policy yesterday afternoon. It is as follows:   

- All drugs: 3 months maximum override  
- 1 override per medication per year  
    - **No exceptions allowed** 
- If travel is in the USA, consideration should be made for in network pharmacies available to fill BEFORE providing overrides
- Must document: Leaving date, return date, travel location (city, state, country).
- Confirm ALL maintenance medications needed during the call (document the names of the medications, if they are only asking for 1 medication but there are more, ask about the additional drugs, **it is not acceptable to say that they only asked for 1 drug- you need to ask**)
- Consider the quantity available/left on the prescription 

**No more emailing ODM for approval.**

**Technicians can approve this overrides themselves.**


**Lost/stolen/damaged** 
- Overrides for non-controlled medications (excluding specialty) up to 3 overrides per medication per rolling year.

## Overrides a Tech will reach out to the Sr. Techs and Supervisors

| | |
| :--- | :--- |
| Lost/stolen/damaged | Med overrides for non-controlled medications for over 3 overrides per medication per rolling year |
| Specialty Meds | Any override for a specialty medication |
| Dose Increases: non-controlled | Dose increases not rejecting for 7205 |
| Refill too soon | RTS claims where 80% threshold has not been met and pharmacy says med is needed, if rejecting 7073 |
| Cost Overrides | |
| Day Supply Exceeds | |

**Overrides a Tech will reach out to Sr. Tech/Supervisor for RPh contact**

| | |
| :--- | :--- |
| Lost/stolen/damaged | Overrides for controlled medications |
| Out of State | Overrides for controlled medications |
| Dose Increases | Overrides for controlled medications |
| Refill too soon | Overrides for controlled medications if rejecting 7073. |
| At leadership direction | |

Commit message:

Update Edit Overrides.md
Updated Overrides a Sr Tech can place without RPh approval

docs/Clinical and Technical Reference Guide/Calls - Edit Overrides/Edit Overrides.md, after:

---
search:
  boost: 1
---

# Edit Overrides

## Overrides a Tech can place without reaching out to RPh, Sr. Techs or Supervisors**

**As of 1/10/23, effective immediately**

ODM changed the vacation override policy yesterday afternoon. It is as follows:   

- All drugs: 3 months maximum override  
- 1 override per medication per year  
    - **No exceptions allowed** 
- If travel is in the USA, consideration should be made for in network pharmacies available to fill BEFORE providing overrides
- Must document: Leaving date, return date, travel location (city, state, country).
- Confirm ALL maintenance medications needed during the call (document the names of the medications, if they are only asking for 1 medication but there are more, ask about the additional drugs, **it is not acceptable to say that they only asked for 1 drug- you need to ask**)
- Consider the quantity available/left on the prescription 

**No more emailing ODM for approval.**

**Technicians can approve this overrides themselves.**


**Lost/stolen/damaged** 
- Overrides for non-controlled medications (excluding specialty) up to 3 overrides per medication per rolling year.

**Overrides a Tech will reach out to the Sr. Techs and Supervisors

| | |
| :--- | :--- |
| Lost/stolen/damaged | Med overrides for non-controlled medications for over 3 overrides per medication per rolling year |
| Specialty Meds | Any override for a specialty medication |
| Dose Increases: non-controlled | Dose increases not rejecting for 7205 |
| Refill too soon | RTS claims where 80% threshold has not been met and pharmacy says med is needed, if rejecting 7073 |
| Cost Overrides | |
| Day Supply Exceeds | |

**Overrides a Tech will reach out to Sr. Tech/Supervisor for RPh contact**

| | |
| :--- | :--- |
| Lost/stolen/damaged | Overrides for controlled medications |
| Out of State | Overrides for controlled medications |
| Dose Increases | Overrides for controlled medications |
| Refill too soon | Overrides for controlled medications if rejecting 7073. |
| At leadership direction | |

**How a Sr. Tech/Supervisor should handle the above overrides**

Controlled substance - stolen
1. Is there a police report and is prescriber aware? – Yes (go to 2), No (go to 3)
2. Is the dispensing pharmacist okay with dispensing early? – Yes (Approve and place appropriate EO’s), No (go to 4)
3. No police report provided and/or prescriber aware. – Advise caller that provider must be aware and a police report is needed
4. If dispensing pharmacist is not okay with dispensing early. – Outreach needed to pharmacy and EO can be placed by the senior tech. It will be up to the dispensing pharmacist to determined when they want to dispense.
 

Controlled substance – dose increase
1. Does the medication require a PA? -  Yes (go to #2), No (go to #3)
2. If the medication requires PA, check profile for active PA and determine if the current PA will cover the dose increase. If the PA does NOT cover the dose increase, please advise the caller that the prescriber will need to submit a new PA for the dose increase.
3. If the medication is preferred, check to see if there is a quantity limit on the medication. If there is a quantity limit and the request exceeds this, advise caller PA is required. If not exceeded, please place appropriate EO’s to let the drug pay.
 

Controlled substance - lost or damaged
1. Is the pharmacy calling for the early refill override and the pharmacist is okay with dispensing early? – Yes (go to #2), No (go to #3)
2. Place one-time EO, document name of pharmacist/pharmacy tech calling.
3. If the member is calling and not the pharmacist, please outreach the pharmacy/pharmacist to explain the situation. If the pharmacist agrees to a early fill, please place one-time EO.
 

Daily dose error on existing PA
1. Is the pharmacy calling due to an incorrect daily dose placed on a PA? – Yes (go to #2), No (go to #3)
2. Does the daily dose pharmacy is requesting match the PA request on file? – Yes (go to #4), No (go to #5)
3. The pharmacy or the provider’s office (not the member) should be calling on these requests.
4. If the daily dose requested matches the PA request on file and we had the incorrect daily dose on our end on the approval, please update the PA and verify that it is paying at the pharmacy.
5. If the daily dose requested does not match the approved PA request on file or there is a dose increase, a new PA will be needed (like example 2 above).
