Walkthrough on how to place a Edit Override

Step 1: To start an Edit override the tech will use the Rx Claim tile to
search the member to be able to see the rejection reasons for the claim
if applicable.

![](docs/images/Walkthrough%20on%20how%20to%20place%20a%20Edit%20Override/media/image1.png)

Step 2: Once the claims populate you will be able to see all rejected
and paid claims, the most efficient way to search through them is to
sort by drug name but left clicking on the drug name. Once you do this
is will sort the drugs in alphabetical order, if multiple claims for the
same drug exist it will be sorted by the most recent claim first and
then in descending order to the oldest claim. You can see in the column
on the right if the claim paid or not.

![](docs/images/Walkthrough%20on%20how%20to%20place%20a%20Edit%20Override/media/image2.png)

Step 4: Once you have found the claim in question you can click the
thumbtack on the left-hand side to pull up either the paid or rejected
details.

![](docs/images/Walkthrough%20on%20how%20to%20place%20a%20Edit%20Override/media/image3.png)

Step 5: When reviewing the rejected reasons the override numbers that
end in a “D” are able to be overriden on our end, not all of the
overrides that are showing should be overriden and if unsure of if you
can place it reach out to either the RPH group or the Sr tech and
Supervisor list depending on the situation please refer to the override
questions list at the bottom of this document or in the Phone Override
DLP. The edit override reasons that end in an “R” are not rejecting on
our end and are instead saftey edits the pharmacy must acknoledge or
place on their end.

![](docs/images/Walkthrough%20on%20how%20to%20place%20a%20Edit%20Override/media/image4.png)

Step 6: If you can place the override continue throught the rest of the
steps, if an overide cannot be placed advise of correct action required,
if override can be placed the best way to proceed placing the override
is to select ‘edit override’ under the ‘Authorization tab’ and select
‘New’ and search the Cardholder ID. Once it is searched you can verify
the member on the screen that will pop up next. (I will exclude that
screen as there is no way to present it without showing member
information.)

![](docs/images/Walkthrough%20on%20how%20to%20place%20a%20Edit%20Override/media/image5.png)

Step 7: Once the tech has verified the member they can check the bottom
of the edit override page to see the member’s denied claim history (last
90 days). If the correct claim is not there and is prior to the 90 day
window the tech can select the member profile (outlined in black
marker).

![](docs/images/Walkthrough%20on%20how%20to%20place%20a%20Edit%20Override/media/image6.png)

Step 8: If the claim does not appear the tech can utilize the calendar
date range to adjust it to see older claims. Once the correct claim is
identified the tech can select the asterisk to pre-load drug info from
the rejection.

![](docs/images/Walkthrough%20on%20how%20to%20place%20a%20Edit%20Override/media/image7.png)

Step 9: Once the claim is selected from the rejected claims the
following information will loaded into the override, Drug name (by
GCNSeqNo), qty/day supply, and the effective date (date of rejection).
To get the term date the tech can just select the = sign next to the qty
dispensed. An edit list of overrides will be auto populated based on the
rejection from the pharmacy, these will not default to the correct
options. The tech may need to remove certain overrides and add others
based on the situation. We will know which codes we should override
based on the screenshot of the rejection after step 5 and which ones you
were advised to override when reaching out to your sr tech or supervisor
or RPH. To remove certain overrides all you need to do is select the
drop down next to edits and reselect the one/s in red that you choose to
remove.

![](docs/images/Walkthrough%20on%20how%20to%20place%20a%20Edit%20Override/media/image8.png)

Step 10: Once you have populated the correct term date and chosen the
overrides you wish to override you can edit your status to “Approve”
(for edit overrides that you are placing the status will always be
approved so that the overrides will be placed. The source and Method
will be who and how they contacted you to begin the override and the
last section is to add a note on why you are placing the override and if
you got approval from a Sr tech, Supervisor or RPH please add their
initials (First letter of both First and Last name) to the note as well.
Once this is done the tech can click submit and the override is placed.

![](docs/images/Walkthrough%20on%20how%20to%20place%20a%20Edit%20Override/media/image9.png)
