docs/UPDL/Infectious_Disease_Agents/antivirals-hepatitis-c.md, before:

# Infectious Disease Agents: Antivirals – Hepatitis C Agents

**LENGTH OF AUTHORIZATIONS:**  365 days except simeprevir and direct acting antivirals (DAAs), see below

 **PRIOR AUTHORIZATION CRITERIA:**

Is there any reason the patient cannot be changed to a medication within the same class that does not require prior approval?

Acceptable reasons include:

- Allergy to medications not requiring prior approval

- Contraindication to or drug interaction with medications not requiring prior approval

- History of unacceptable/toxic side effects to medications not requiring prior approval

- Patients established on current therapy with prior payer (i.e. Commercial, Fee-for- Service, Managed Care Plan, etc).

**ADDITIONAL CRITERIA FOR DAAs:**

All HCV DAAs require clinical prior authorization. Only regimens recommended by the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases (AASLD) will be approved.

Please see the [Hepatitis C Direct Acting Antiviral Prior Authorization Form](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/HepC_PA_Form_20211119.pdf#overlay-context=prior-authorization) for criteria and the most recent regimens recommended by the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases (AASLD)

**ADDITIONAL INFORMATION TO AID IN THE FINAL DECISION:**

- Pegylated Interferons have a Black Box Warning which indicates that a patient should be monitored closely with periodic clinical and laboratory evaluations.

- Ribavirins are contraindicated in women who are pregnant and in their male partner(s). At least two reliable forms of contraception must be used during therapy.

## Antivirals - Hepatitis C Agents

| Infectious Disease Agents: Antivirals – Hepatitis C Agents  |                                      |
|-------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
| PREFERRED                                                   | NON-PREFERRED                        |
| Mavyret PA                                                  | Harvoni 33.75-150, 45-200, 90-400mg  |
| Pegasys PA                                                  | Ledipasvir/Sofosbuvir                |
| Ribavirin PA                                                | Sovaldi                              |
| Sofosbuvir/Velpatasvir PA                                   | Vosevi                               |
|                                                             | Zepatier                             |

**Link to Criteria:** [Infectious Disease Agents: Antivirals - Hepatitis C Agents](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20220415_UPDL_Criteria_FINAL_.pdf#page=77)

Commit message:

Completion of Additional Markdown Changes

docs/UPDL/Infectious_Disease_Agents/antivirals-hepatitis-c.md, after:

# Infectious Disease Agents: Antivirals – Hepatitis C Agents

## Length Of Authorizations

365 days except simeprevir and direct acting antivirals (DAAs), see below

## Prior Authorization Criteria

Is there any reason the patient cannot be changed to a medication within the same class that does not require prior approval?

Acceptable reasons include:

- Allergy to medications not requiring prior approval

- Contraindication to or drug interaction with medications not requiring prior approval

- History of unacceptable/toxic side effects to medications not requiring prior approval

- Patients established on current therapy with prior payer (i.e. Commercial, Fee-for- Service, Managed Care Plan, etc).

## Additional Criteria For DAAs

All HCV DAAs require clinical prior authorization. Only regimens recommended by the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases (AASLD) will be approved.

Please see the [Hepatitis C Direct Acting Antiviral Prior Authorization Form](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/HepC_PA_Form_20211119.pdf#overlay-context=prior-authorization) for criteria and the most recent regimens recommended by the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases (AASLD)

## Additional Information To Aid In The Final Decision

- Pegylated Interferons have a Black Box Warning which indicates that a patient should be monitored closely with periodic clinical and laboratory evaluations.

- Ribavirins are contraindicated in women who are pregnant and in their male partner(s). At least two reliable forms of contraception must be used during therapy.

## Antivirals - Hepatitis C Agents

Infectious Disease Agents: Antivirals – Hepatitis C Agents

| PREFERRED | NON-PREFERRED |
| :--- | ---: |
| Mavyret PA  | Harvoni 33.75-150, 45-200, 90-400mg |
| Pegasys PA                | Ledipasvir/Sofosbuvir |
| Ribavirin PA              | Sovaldi               |
| Sofosbuvir/Velpatasvir PA | Vosevi                |
|                           | Zepatier              |

### Link to Criteria

[Infectious Disease Agents: Antivirals - Hepatitis C Agents](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20220415_UPDL_Criteria_FINAL_.pdf#page=77)
