docs/UPDL/Infectious_Disease_Agents/antibiotics-macrolides.md, before:

# Infectious Disease Agents: Antibiotics – Macrolides

**LENGTH OF AUTHORIZATIONS**: Date of service only; no refills

1. Is there any reason the patient cannot be changed to a medication not requiring prior approval?

    Acceptable reasons include:

    - Allergy to medications not requiring prior approval

    - Contraindication to or drug interaction with medications not requiring prior approval

    - History of unacceptable/toxic side effects to medications not requiring prior approval

2. If the infection is caused by an organism resistant to medications not requiring prior approval, then may approve the requested medication.

    - Note diagnosis and any culture and sensitivity reports

3. If there has been a therapeutic failure to no less than a **3-day trial** of at least **one** medication not requiring prior approval, then may approve the requested medication.

**ADDITIONAL INFORMATION TO AID IN THE FINAL DECISION:**

If the patient is completing a course of therapy with a medication requiring prior approval, which was initiated in the hospital, then may approve the requested medication to complete the course of therapy.

## Antibiotics - Macrolides

| Infectious Disease Agents: Antibiotics – Macrolides  |                                   |
|------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------|
| PREFERRED                                            | NON-PREFERRED                     |
| Azithromycin                                         | Eryped                            |
| Clarithromycin                                       | Erythrocin Stearate               |
|                                                      | Erythromycin                      |

**Link to Criteria:** [Infectious Disease Agents: Antibiotics - Macrolides](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20220415_UPDL_Criteria_FINAL_.pdf#page=72)

Commit message:

Completion of Additional Markdown Changes

docs/UPDL/Infectious_Disease_Agents/antibiotics-macrolides.md, after:

# Infectious Disease Agents: Antibiotics – Macrolides

## Length Of Authorizations

Date of service only; no refills

1. Is there any reason the patient cannot be changed to a medication not requiring prior approval?

    Acceptable reasons include:

    - Allergy to medications not requiring prior approval

    - Contraindication to or drug interaction with medications not requiring prior approval

    - History of unacceptable/toxic side effects to medications not requiring prior approval

2. If the infection is caused by an organism resistant to medications not requiring prior approval, then may approve the requested medication.

    - Note diagnosis and any culture and sensitivity reports

3. If there has been a therapeutic failure to no less than a **3-day trial** of at least **one** medication not requiring prior approval, then may approve the requested medication.

## Additional Information To Aid In The Final Decision

If the patient is completing a course of therapy with a medication requiring prior approval, which was initiated in the hospital, then may approve the requested medication to complete the course of therapy.

## Antibiotics - Macrolides

Infectious Disease Agents: Antibiotics – Macrolides

| PREFERRED | NON-PREFERRED |
| :--- | ---: |
| Azithromycin   | Eryped              |
| Clarithromycin | Erythrocin Stearate |
|                | Erythromycin        |

### Link to Criteria

[Infectious Disease Agents: Antibiotics - Macrolides](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20220415_UPDL_Criteria_FINAL_.pdf#page=72)
