docs/UPDL/Infectious_Disease_Agents/antibiotics-tetracyclines.md, before:

# Infectious Disease Agents: Antibiotics – Tetracyclines

**LENGTH OF AUTHORIZATIONS**: for the date of service only; no refills

**PRIOR AUTHORIZATION CRITERIA:**

1. Is there any reason the patient cannot be changed to a medication not requiring prior approval?

    Acceptable reasons include:

    - Allergy to medications not requiring prior approval

    - Contraindication to or drug interaction with medications not requiring prior approval

    - History of unacceptable/toxic side effects to medications not requiring prior approval

2. If the infection is caused by an organism resistant to medications not requiring prior approval, then may approve the requested medication.

    - Note diagnosis and any culture and sensitivity reports

3. If there have been therapeutic failures to no less than a **3-day** trial of at least **one** medication not requiring prior approval, then may approve the requested medication.

**ADDITIONAL INFORMATION TO AID IN THE FINAL DECISION:**

If the patient is completing a course of therapy with a medication requiring prior approval, which was initiated in the hospital, then may approve the requested medication to complete the course of therapy.

AR - Vibramycin Suspension: a PA is required for patients over 12 years old

**ADDITIONAL CRITERIA FOR OMADACYCLINE:**

**LENGTH OF AUTHORIZATIONS**: 14 Days

1. Clinical criteria for initial authorization:

    - Diagnosis of Community-Acquired Bacterial Pneumonia (CABP) with prior failure of other first line agent OR

    - Diagnosis of Acute Bacterial Skin and Skin Structure Infection (ABSSSI) with prior failure of other first line agent

2. Is there any reason the patient cannot be changed to a medication not requiring prior approval?

    Acceptable reasons include:

    - Allergy to medications not requiring prior approval

    - Contraindication to or drug interaction with medications not requiring prior approval

    - History of unacceptable/toxic side effects to medications not requiring prior approval

3. If the infection is caused by an organism resistant to medications not requiring prior approval, then may approve the requested medication.

    - Note diagnosis and any culture and sensitivity reports

**ADDITIONAL INFORMATION TO AID IN THE FINAL DECISION:**

If the patient is completing a course of therapy with a medication requiring prior approval, which was initiated in the hospital, then may approve the requested medication to complete the course of therapy.

## Antibiotics - Tetracyclines

| Infectious Disease Agents: Antibiotics – Tetracyclines  |                                |
|---------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------|
| PREFERRED                                               | NON-PREFERRED                  |
| Doxycycline 50, 100mg                                   | Doxycycline 20, 40, 75, 150mg  |
| Doxycycline Syr                                         | Doxycycline DR                 |
| Minocycline Cap                                         | Minocycline ER                 |
| Tetracycline                                            | Minocycline Tab                |
| Vibramycin Susp AR                                      | Nuzyra                         |

**Link to Criteria:** [Infectious Disease Agents: Antibiotics - Tetracyclines](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20220415_UPDL_Criteria_FINAL_.pdf#page=75)

Commit message:

Completion of Additional Markdown Changes

docs/UPDL/Infectious_Disease_Agents/antibiotics-tetracyclines.md, after:

# Infectious Disease Agents: Antibiotics – Tetracyclines

## Length Of Authorizations

For the date of service only; no refills

## Prior Authorization Criteria

1. Is there any reason the patient cannot be changed to a medication not requiring prior approval?

    Acceptable reasons include:

    - Allergy to medications not requiring prior approval

    - Contraindication to or drug interaction with medications not requiring prior approval

    - History of unacceptable/toxic side effects to medications not requiring prior approval

2. If the infection is caused by an organism resistant to medications not requiring prior approval, then may approve the requested medication.

    - Note diagnosis and any culture and sensitivity reports

3. If there have been therapeutic failures to no less than a **3-day** trial of at least **one** medication not requiring prior approval, then may approve the requested medication.

## Additional Information To Aid In The Final Decision

If the patient is completing a course of therapy with a medication requiring prior approval, which was initiated in the hospital, then may approve the requested medication to complete the course of therapy.

AR - Vibramycin Suspension: a PA is required for patients over 12 years old

## Additional Criteria For Omadacycline

## Length of Authorizations

14 Days

1. Clinical criteria for initial authorization:

    - Diagnosis of Community-Acquired Bacterial Pneumonia (CABP) with prior failure of other first line agent OR

    - Diagnosis of Acute Bacterial Skin and Skin Structure Infection (ABSSSI) with prior failure of other first line agent

2. Is there any reason the patient cannot be changed to a medication not requiring prior approval?

    Acceptable reasons include:

    - Allergy to medications not requiring prior approval

    - Contraindication to or drug interaction with medications not requiring prior approval

    - History of unacceptable/toxic side effects to medications not requiring prior approval

3. If the infection is caused by an organism resistant to medications not requiring prior approval, then may approve the requested medication.

    - Note diagnosis and any culture and sensitivity reports

## Additional Information To Aid In The Final Decision

If the patient is completing a course of therapy with a medication requiring prior approval, which was initiated in the hospital, then may approve the requested medication to complete the course of therapy.

## Antibiotics - Tetracyclines

Infectious Disease Agents: Antibiotics – Tetracyclines

| PREFERRED | NON-PREFERRED |
| :--- | ---: |
| Doxycycline 50, 100mg  | Doxycycline 20, 40, 75, 150mg |
| Doxycycline Syr        | Doxycycline DR                |
| Minocycline Cap        | Minocycline ER                |
| Tetracycline           | Minocycline Tab               |
| Vibramycin Susp AR     | Nuzyra                        |

### Link to Criteria

[Infectious Disease Agents: Antibiotics - Tetracyclines](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20220415_UPDL_Criteria_FINAL_.pdf#page=75)
