docs/UPDL/Infectious_Disease_Agents/antifungals.md, before:

# Infectious Disease Agents: Antifungals

**LENGTH OF AUTHORIZATIONS**: For the duration of the prescription (up to 180 days)

**PRIOR AUTHORIZATION CRITERIA:**

1. Is there any reason the patient cannot be changed to a medication not requiring prior approval?

    Acceptable reasons include:

    - Allergy to medications not requiring prior approval

    - Contraindication to or drug-to-drug interaction with medications not requiring prior approval: Drug interactions (inhibition of CYP450 system) Ketoconazole \> Itraconazole\> Voriconazole \>Fluconazole

    - History of unacceptable/toxic side effects to medications not requiring prior approval

2. If the patient has a serious illness that causes them to be immunocompromised [i.e. AIDS, cancer, organ (solid or non-solid) transplant] then may approve the requested medication.
3. If there have been therapeutic failures to no less than a **7-day** trial of at least **one** medication not requiring prior approval, then may approve the requested medication.

**ADDITIONAL INFORMATION TO AID IN THE FINAL DECISION:**

1. If the patient is completing a course of therapy with a medication requiring prior approval, which was initiated in the hospital or other similar location, or if the patient has just become Medicaid eligible and is already on a course of treatment with a medication requiring prior approval, then may approve the requested medication.
2. If the request is for a diagnosis other than fungal infection, please refer the case to a pharmacist. An off-label use may be approvable for a medication such as Nizoral for advanced prostate cancer or for Cushing’s Syndrome when standard treatments have failed.

## Antifungals

| Infectious Disease Agents: Antifungals  |                                              |
|-----------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------|
| PREFERRED                               | NON-PREFERRED                                |
| Fluconazole                             | Brexafemme                                   |
| Flucytosine                             | Cresemba                                     |
| Griseofulvin                            | Itraconazole                                 |
| Ketoconazole                            | Noxafil Susp                                 |
| Terbinafine                             | Oravig                                       |
|                                         | Posaconazole                                 |
|                                         | Tolsura                                      |
|                                         | Voriconazole                                 |

**Link to Criteria:** [Infectious Disease Agents: Antifungals](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20220415_UPDL_Criteria_FINAL_.pdf#page=76)

Commit message:

Completion of Additional Markdown Changes

docs/UPDL/Infectious_Disease_Agents/antifungals.md, after:

# Infectious Disease Agents: Antifungals

## Length Of Authorizations

For the duration of the prescription (up to 180 days)

## Prior Authorization Criteria

1. Is there any reason the patient cannot be changed to a medication not requiring prior approval?

    Acceptable reasons include:

    - Allergy to medications not requiring prior approval

    - Contraindication to or drug-to-drug interaction with medications not requiring prior approval: Drug interactions (inhibition of CYP450 system) Ketoconazole \> Itraconazole\> Voriconazole \>Fluconazole

    - History of unacceptable/toxic side effects to medications not requiring prior approval

2. If the patient has a serious illness that causes them to be immunocompromised [i.e. AIDS, cancer, organ (solid or non-solid) transplant] then may approve the requested medication.
3. If there have been therapeutic failures to no less than a **7-day** trial of at least **one** medication not requiring prior approval, then may approve the requested medication.

## Additional Information To Aid In The Final Decision

1. If the patient is completing a course of therapy with a medication requiring prior approval, which was initiated in the hospital or other similar location, or if the patient has just become Medicaid eligible and is already on a course of treatment with a medication requiring prior approval, then may approve the requested medication.
2. If the request is for a diagnosis other than fungal infection, please refer the case to a pharmacist. An off-label use may be approvable for a medication such as Nizoral for advanced prostate cancer or for Cushing’s Syndrome when standard treatments have failed.

## Antifungals

Infectious Disease Agents: Antifungals

| PREFERRED | NON-PREFERRED |
| :---| ---: |
| Fluconazole  | Brexafemme   |
| Flucytosine  | Cresemba     |
| Griseofulvin | Itraconazole |
| Ketoconazole | Noxafil Susp |
| Terbinafine  | Oravig       |
|              | Posaconazole |
|              | Tolsura      |
|              | Voriconazole |

### Link to Criteria

[Infectious Disease Agents: Antifungals](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20220415_UPDL_Criteria_FINAL_.pdf#page=76)
