docs/Endocrine_Agents/osteoporosis.md, before:

# Osteoporosis – Bone Ossification Enhancers

This is a subcategory of Endocrine Agents.

## Formulary

### Preferred

| Preferred         | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :---------------- | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
| Alendronate Tab   |              |          |             |
| Calcitonin-Salmon |              |          |             |
| Forteo            |              |          |             |
| Ibandronate       |              |          |             |

### Non-Preferred

| Non-Preferred    | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :--------------- | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
| Alendronate Susp |              |          |             |
| Fosamax Plus D   |              |          |             |
| Risedronate      |              |          |             |
| Tymlos           |              |          |             |

## Length of Authorizations

365 Days

## Prior Authorization Criteria

1.  Is there any reason the patient cannot be changed to a medication not requiring prior approval? Acceptable reasons include:
    1.  Allergy to medications not requiring prior approval
    2.  Contraindication to or drug interaction with medications not requiring prior approval
    3.  History of unacceptable/toxic side effects to medications not requiring prior approval
2.  The requested medication may be approved if there has been a therapeutic failure to no less than a 90-day trial of at least one preferred medication within the same class of the requested medication

## Additional Criteria

### Critical Information

Patients should only be on ONE of the therapeutic classes (bisphosphonates, calcitonin-salmon).

### Abaloparatide (TYMLOS™)

Additional Criteria for Abaloparatide (TYMLOS™)

Abaloparatide is indicated in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis at high risk for fracture.

1.  Patient is female and postmenopausal
2.  Diagnosis of osteoporosis
3.  Trial of bisphosphonates for greater than 365 days
4.  Total lifetime therapy of parathyroid hormone analogs does not exceed 730 days (2 years)

## Links

[Criteria](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20221001_UPDL_Criteria_APPROVED.pdf#page=57)

[Preferred Drug List](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20221001_UPDL_APPROVED_.pdf#page=22)

Commit message:

updates until ql in osteoporosis

docs/Endocrine_Agents/osteoporosis.md, after:

# Osteoporosis – Bone Ossification Enhancers

This is a subcategory of Endocrine Agents.

## Formulary

### Preferred

| Preferred         | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :---------------- | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
| Alendronate Tab   |              |          |             |
| Calcitonin-Salmon |              |          |             |
| Forteo <sup>QL</sup>           |              |          |             |
| Ibandronate       |              |          |             |

### Non-Preferred

| Non-Preferred    | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :--------------- | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
| Alendronate Susp |              |          |             |
| Fosamax Plus D   |              |          |             |
| Risedronate      |              |          |             |
| Tymlos <sup>QL</sup>          |              |          |             |

## Length of Authorizations

365 Days

## All Authorizations

Must be prescribed in accordance with FDA approved labeling

## Non-Preferred Criteria

- Must provide documentation of medical necessity beyond convenience for why the patient cannot be changed to a preferred drug (i.e., allergies, drug-drug interactions, contraindications, or intolerances) **OR**
    - For any nonsolid oral dosage formulation: must provide documentation of medical necessity for why patient cannot be changed to a solid oral dosage formulation
- Must have had an inadequate clinical response of at least **365 days** with at least **one preferred** drug within the same drug class
    - For non-preferred extended-release formulations: must provide documentation of an inadequate clinical response with its immediate release formulation (if available)
    - For non-preferred brand names that have preferred generics: must provide documentation of an inadequate clinical response or allergy to two or more generic labelers (if available)

## Abaloparatide (Tymlos <sup>TM</sup>)

Additional Abaloparatide (Tymlos <sup>TM</sup>) Criteria

Must have had an inadequate clinical response of at least **365 days** with **one** bisphosphonate

## Additional Information

- Patients should only be on ONE of the therapeutic classes (bisphosphonates, calcitonin-salmon)
- A total lifetime duration of therapy of 730 days with any parathyroid analog will be authorized

## Subsequent Authorization Criteria

- Must provide documentation of patient's clinical response to treatment and ongoing safety monitoring

## Links

[Criteria](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20230101_UPDL%20_Criteria_APPROVED.pdf#page=59)

[Preferred Drug List](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20230101_UPDL_APPROVED_12.13.22.pdf#page=13)

[Quantity Limit List](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20230101_Ohio_Medicaid_Quantity_Document_APPROVED.pdf)
