docs/Endocrine_Agents/uterine_fibroids.md, before:

# Uterine Fibroids

This is a subcategory of Endocrine Agents.

## Formulary

### Preferred

| Preferred                     | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :---------------------------- | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
| Lupron Depot PA 3.75, 11.25mg |              |          |             |
| Oriahnn PA                    |              |          |             |

### Non-Preferred

| Non-Preferred | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :------------ | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
| Myfembree     |              |          |             |

## Length of Authorizations

180 Days

Patients who have been treated with Oriahnn or Myfembree for 720 days or more are not eligible for additional authorizations

Patients who have been treated with Lupron Depot for 180 days or more are not eligible for additional authorizations

## Prior Authorization Criteria

1.  Is there any reason the patient cannot be changed to a medication not requiring prior approval? Acceptable reasons include:
    1.  Allergy to medications not requiring prior approval
    2.  Contraindication to or drug interaction with medications not requiring prior approval
    3.  History of unacceptable/toxic side effects to medications not requiring prior approval
2.  The requested medication may be approved if the patient has a diagnosis of uterine leiomyomas (fibroids) and has failed a 90 day or more trial with an oral contraceptive

## Links

[Criteria](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20221001_UPDL_Criteria_APPROVED.pdf#page=59)

[Preferred Drug List](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20221001_UPDL_APPROVED_.pdf#page=22)

Commit message:

updates until ql in uterine fibroids

docs/Endocrine_Agents/uterine_fibroids.md, after:

# Uterine Fibroids

This is a subcategory of Endocrine Agents.

## Formulary

### Preferred

| Preferred                     | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :---------------------------- | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
| Lupron Depot <sup>PA</sup> 3.75, 11.25mg |              |          |             |
| Oriahnn <sup>PA QL</sup>                    |              |          |             |
| Myfembree <sup>PA QL</sup>    |              |          |             |

### Non-Preferred

| Non-Preferred | Generic Name | Quantity | Time (Days) |
| :------------ | :----------- | :------: | :---------: |
|      |              |          |             |

## Length of Authorizations

Up to 180 Days

## All Authorizations

Must be prescribed in accordance with FDA approved labeling

## Non-Preferred Criteria

- Must provide documentation of medical necessity beyond convenience for why the patient cannot be changed to a preferred drug (i.e., allergies, drug-drug interactions, contraindications, or intolerances) **OR**
    - For any nonsolid oral dosage formulation: must provide documentation of medical necessity for why patient cannot be changed to a solid oral dosage formulation
- Must have had an inadequate clinical response of at least **90 days** with at least **one preferred** drug
    - For non-preferred extended-release formulations: must provide documentation of an inadequate clinical response with its immediate release formulation (if available)
    - For non-preferred brand names that have preferred generics: must provide documentation of an inadequate clinical response or allergy to two or more generic labelers (if available)

## Additional Information

- A total lifetime duration of therapy of 730 days between Oriahnn and Myfembree or 180 days for Lupron Depot will be authorized

## Subsequent Authorization Criteria

- Must provide documentation of patient's clinical response to treatment and ongoing safety monitoring

## Links

[Criteria](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20230101_UPDL%20_Criteria_APPROVED.pdf#page=61)

[Preferred Drug List](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20230101_UPDL_APPROVED_12.13.22.pdf#page=22)

[Quantity Limit List](https://pharmacy.medicaid.ohio.gov/sites/default/files/20230101_Ohio_Medicaid_Quantity_Document_APPROVED.pdf)
